### GitHub repository for 
# Catch crop amendments and microbial inoculants for sustainable soil health management – a greenhouse case study with apple plants
### by Kristin Hauschild, Adriana Giongo, Benye Liu, Doreen Babin, Elke Bloem, Ludger Beerhues, Traud Winkelmann and Kornelia Smalla
## Abstract
Plant–soil feedback and soil microbial legacies play crucial roles in replanting success of apple. This study investigated how different soil amendment strategies influence these factors in replant disease-affected soil. Two approaches were tested: (i) the preculture and amendment of catch crops—either a single species, Tagetes patula, or a diverse catch crop mixture (CCM), and (ii) the inoculation of plant-beneficial microbes—bacteria, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi, or their combination (SynC). Apple rootstock M.26 was grown for 7 weeks in a greenhouse, and plant growth, soil nutrients, root phytoalexins, and microbial communities in rhizosphere (RS) and root-affected soil were analyzed. Catch crop amendments but not microbial inoculations, significantly altered soil nutrients. Root length increased significantly under CCM, and in tendency in Tagetes and SynC. Phytoalexin contents were lowest in Tagetes and highest in CCM, both differing from the control in specific compounds. Microbiome analysis revealed that catch crops strongly modulated fungal communities in RS and root-affected soil, favoring potentially beneficial Linnemannia and Mortierella, while microbial inoculations predominantly modulated bacterial/archaeal RS communities. Our results suggest that catch crops and microbial inoculants induced distinct shifts in soil–plant–microbe interactions under replanting conditions.
## Data
Unassembled raw sequence data of 16S rRNA gene and ITS amplicon sequencing is available in the NCBI Sequence Read Archive (SRA) under the BioProject PRJNA1227435. 
## Funding
This work was supported by the German Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF, Germany) in the framework of the project ORDIAmur [grant numbers 031B0512B, 031B0512D, 031B1070D] which is part of the funding initiative “Soil as a sustainable resource for the bioeconomy”.
